This assignment builds on HW 1. You will use certain graph algorithms to perform queries on your social network and determine relationship features.

This programming assignment will have you:

1.  Create a makefile
    
2.  Use breadth-first search to find a shortest path in a graph
    
3.  Use breadth-first search to explore neighbors in a graph.
    
4.  Implement a simple friend suggestion algorithm.
    
5.  Use depth-first search to to find the components in a graph
    
6.  Extra Credit: Solve leetcode problems with BFS/DFS

7.  Go back and complete any steps that were not completed in HW 1.
    

**Here is, again, a [sample input file Links to an external site.](https://github.com/nlinnell/s24-62/tree/main/hw1/users.txt).**

### Deliverables:

Please upload the files for your classes, your main file, your makefile, and your .txt with your short answer questions.

## **Problem Description**

### 0\. Autograder tips

-   I will again use an autograder to test your code; remember you can submit to the autograder as many times as you wish, and only the last one will be graded. This time, I will hide some of the test cases until after the deadline. You may want to test your code on your own to ensure that it is correct.
-   I will rely on the readUsers function to test your code. Your code for this HW may be correct and still fail the autograder tests if your readUsers method is wrong, so make sure it is correct.
-   You can find autograder tests here: [https://github.com/nlinnell/CS62/tree/main/Homework/hw2/autograder\_tests Links to an external site.](https://github.com/nlinnell/CS62/tree/main/Homework/hw2/autograder_tests)   For this assignment, I have hidden some of the tests, and you will not see your full score until after grades are posted. 
-   The autograder tests here use several txt files. Make sure you download the corresponding txt file with the test.

### 1\. Copy your code, Makefile  (6 points)

In a command-line terminal, create a new folder, then add copies of your HW1 files to that folder. This way you will always have your working HW1 code. Which linux commands will help you do this?  Create a makefile that will streamline compiling your code. The makefile needs to use partial compilation (part 2 of the minilab), but it's okay if it doesn't use shortcuts/wildcards/variables.

### 2\. Shortest path (18 points)

Add a public method **std::vector<int> Network::shortestPath(int from, int to)** to the Network class.  It will compute the shortest relational distance between two users (minimum number of edges between two users/vertices).  It should return a vector containing a shortest path of vertices starting at User "from" and ending at user "to."  You may add other private helper functions to your network class.

### 3\. User at a Given Distance (18 points)

Add a public method **std::****vector<int> Network::distanceUser(int from, int& to, int distance)** to your Network class.  Given a user and a distance, this function should find a user whose relational distance from the given user exactly matches the distance given.  You should also give the shortest path.  The [call by reference parameter Links to an external site.](https://github.com/nlinnell/s24-62/tree/main/0-C%2B%2B/pass_ref.cpp) **int & to** should be the id of the user found, and the method should return a vector of the IDs of the users on the path.  If no such user exists, the function should return an empty vector and set the "to" parameter to -1.

### 4\. Friend Suggestions (18 points)

Add a public method **vector<int> Network::****suggestFriends(int who, int& score)** to your Network class.  It will compute a list of users who are most likely suggestions for the specified user to add as a friend. These users can obviously not be current friends of the specified user but should have a 'strong' connection to the **_friends_** of the specified user. Let us limit our search for ‘strong’ candidates to those who are at a relational distance of 2 from the specified user (that is, friends of friends). The **score** of a potential new friend is the number of **common friends they would share with the specified user**.  The call by reference parameter score should hold the highest score found, and the method should return a list of the ids of Users who have that score. If no suggestions exists, return the empty vector and set score to 0.

### 5\. Groups with DFS (18 points)

Add the following public method to Network that returns a list of the connected components of the network:  **vector<vector<in**t**\> > Network::groups().**  Compute how many _connected components_ of users are present in the network. A connected component is a group of users who all have paths to one another but have no edges to all other uses. Use DFS to compute the connected components of the network. The output should be a list of lists, where each list contains the ids of the users in one connected component. 

### 6  Style (10 points)

Ensure your code is clear and readable. Recall I am checking for the following

•Pre and post comments for each function in header files.

•Comments for code that is not self-explanatory.

•No dead code.

•Consistent formatting (indentation, bracing). I don’t care if your brace is same-line or next-line, but it should be consistent.

•Reasonable use of whitespace.

•Reasonable variable/function names (this matters more on HW 7 and HW 8).

### 7\. Short Answer Questions (12 points)

Answer these questions in a .txt file. Write at most two sentences for each question.

1.  In step 1, which linux commands did you use to (1) create a new folder and (2) copy your files into a new folder?
2.  Could any of the breadth-first-search questions (shortestPath and distanceUser) be solved with depth-first-search? Why or why not?
3.  Could the depth-first-search question (groups) be solved with breadth-first-search? Why or why not?
4.  Can the suggestFriends problem be solved without breadth-first-search and depth-first-search?
5.  Using big-O notation, what is the runtime of your shortestPath implementation in terms of n (the number of vertices) and/or m (the number of edges)? 
6.  Using big-O notation, what is the runtime of your groups implementation in terms of n (the number of vertices) and/or m (the number of edges)?
7.  In hours, (approximately) how much time did you spend on this assignment? (there are no wrong answers)